### 🌸 Overview
This project was made for the exercise `Individual Activity: Data Analysis Script & Report`

It aims to explore the following research questions:
- Are cherry blossom full bloom dates occurring earlier over time in Japan?
- What is the typical timing of cherry blossom full bloom?
- Which years recorded the earliest and latest full bloom dates?
- How consistent is bloom timing, and how has this variability changed over time?
- Do bloom dates differ across Koppen climate classifications?
- Do different climate classifications exhibit different trends in bloom timing over time?
- Do bloom timing and trends differ across provinces in Japan?

### Data Sources
Cherry Blossom Event Data:
- [Japan Cherry Blossom Observation](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/hideos/japan-cherry-blossom-observation)

WMO Station Location Data:
- [WMO Station List (via JMA)](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/hideos/wmo-station-list-via-jma)
- [Nominatim API](https://nominatim.openstreetmap.org/search)

Location Climate Data:
- [Open Meteo API](https://archive-api.open-meteo.com/v1/archive)
- Meteostat via `meteostat` package
- Koppen climate classification was manually derived from the above sources
  
### 🌥️ Notes
- Pipeline:
  - The initial `cherry_blossom_cleaned.csv` is generated by cleaning and merging the raw files: `blossom.csv` and `stations.csv`
  - Geolocation data is fetched through Nominatim API to get fields such as `province`
  - Climate classification is derived from either the Open Meteo API or Meteostat (if rate limits by the API is encountered). These sources return historical weather data
  - The initial cleaned dataset is merged and enriched with the additional geolocation and climate data
  - Visualization and analysis
 
- Koppen Classification
  - System that groups places on Earth based on their temperature and rainfall patterns
  - For reference, the classifications encountered for this exercise can be generally described as follows: 
    - Af - Hot and rainy all year 
    - Cfa - Hot summers, mild winters, humid year-round
    - Dfa - Hot summers, cold winters
    - Dfb - Mild summers, very cold winters
    
### Key trends
*Results can be seen in `outputs/`*

- Climates and geography strongly influence cherry blossom timing. Warmer regions tend to have earlier blooms as early as 20-60 days. The average is around 100 days. The higher end is around 140-155 days
- Bloom dates are occurring earlier over time on average. This may be attributed to overall climate trends such as global warming
- Despite average trends, there is still substantial variability among different Japan regions, but recent patterns seem to suggest a potential decline in the standard deviation in the future
